Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this light show we can go over why we go ahead and declare our hidden word here in our header file
rather than at the top of our C++ file.
This is bad.
We do not do this by the way.
This would make it global.
And we'll find out more in this lecture okay.
So what we're talking about here is making sure that a variable that we're about to use has scope across
our class.
So he can use it in multiple places.
Now we will cover classes in much more detail later on won't we go ahead and create our own.
But for the moment we're just going to go over some of the surface details.
Now the hidden word that we're working on needs to be used across multiple functions in the bull Cal
cartridge class.
Now what is going to happen in the background is that the ball Calcutta is class creates an instance
of the ball Calcutta is it is instantiating it.
Now one of the key things here is that then the hidden word can then be used across that instance.
But not only that it enables us for every instance of the ball cow cartridge say we had multiple terminals
within our game they would all be able to have different hit and words if we just put it at the top.
That's not going to happen.
Not only is it bad practice but it means that the hidden word will be the same across all of those instances.
Let's have a closer look.
OK everybody welcome back.
As we've already identified we want to be able to use the hidden word itself outside of this function
and in several functions as well.
Now one of the things that you might instinctively do when you're new to coding is just keep elevating
it.
So if we instead of having the F string hidden and word declared and initialized here we could lift
it all the way up to the top here.
Now this would actually work.
It's bad practice but it would work.
We would then be able to access hidden word in every other function that's here.
The problem is if we were to have two games two instances of the ball cow cartridge running and one
started after the other one the hidden word in the one that began first would change and we were intending
to have different hit and words and this would apply to other things like health or life in other games.
So it's important to recognize the fact for elevating it to this level is no good.
We want to make sure that we're declaring our hidden word across the class in a way that means each
instance of the class that uses hidden word has its own unique hidden word so we wouldn't do this here
at all.
What we need to do is declare it.
So just this part here what the type is and what the variable is we would need to do that in the header
file itself inside the declaration of the class because of course we can declare it globally in the
header file as well then with in here we can start assigning a value and initializing hit and word when
we play the game.
So we definitely do not want it at this level in our code.
Let's go ahead and declare and assign it in your challenge okay.
So your challenge is to declare and initialize the word.
So first of all declare the hidden word in the header file.
We've already shown you where to do that.
There's a comment saying your declarations go here.
So that's where you're going to declare it.
Remember to include its type as well.
And then what I'd like you to do is initialize the hidden word within the begin play function pause
with the R now and give that a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
How did you get on.
Well let's go ahead now and declare and initialize our hit and word okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and first of all declare our hit words.
I'm going to cut and paste this so I get it absolutely right into the head of.
So where our declaration is go that's already defined.
That's the wrong level of indentation so let's bring that back safe.
Okay.
The header files all sorted without declaration of an F string hit and work that's fine.
Let's go back to C++ file.
We do not want to do anything here.
But what we are doing is when we begin play This is where we want our hidden word to be initialized
with a value a hidden word equals text Kate.
That's fine.
Make sure you get your capitalization correct.
Otherwise that won't work.
Now before we go over into our and check how code works we've got some red squiggles that usually means
something's gone wrong and now I can see what it is can you guys see what's going on here.
Well if we have a look at the error it doesn't really highlight what our issue is.
But notice there's another red squiggle on our curly brace that's also not the error.
The problem if we look down our code is that we've got a curly brace being opened here but it never
being shut.
So during all the moving around that has been forgotten or deleted accidentally.
Now that's all worked.
We can go ahead and save our file and then I'm going to go ahead and open up the ball Cal game.
OK.
So once that's open clicked compile otherwise it won't work.
The compiler has completed successfully yes go ahead and play the game.
So welcome please present to continue.
Now of course when we go ahead and press enter you have lost and it will continue saying that until
we've typed in the correct word which in this case is cake.
So that's fine everything is still working how we expected it.
So that's fine everything's working as we expected it to.
We haven't broken our code which is great.
How are you guys getting on.
Did you manage to both successfully declare and initialize the hit and word in the appropriate place
this time please share your thoughts and any issues you had whilst doing this over in the discussions
and I'll see you will in the next lecture.